The ARRIVE guidelines 2.0: author checklist 
The ARRIVE Essential 10 
These items are the basic minimum to include in a manuscript. Without this information, readers and reviewers  cannot assess the reliability of the findings. 
Section/line  
Item Recommendation 
Study design 1 For each experiment, provide brief details of study design including: 
a. The groups being compared, including control groups. If no control group has  been used, the rationale should be stated. 
b. The experimental unit (e.g. a single animal, litter, or cage of animals). 
Sample size 2 a. Specify the exact number of experimental units allocated to each group, and the  total number in each experiment. Also indicate the total number of animals used. 
b. Explain how the sample size was decided. Provide details of any a priori sample  size calculation, if done. 
number, or reason  for not reporting 
Inclusion and  exclusion  
criteria 
3 a. Describe any criteria used for including and excluding animals (or experimental  units) during the experiment, and data points during the analysis. Specify if these  criteria were established a priori. If no criteria were set, state this explicitly. 
b. For each experimental group, report any animals, experimental units or data points  not included in the analysis and explain why. If there were no exclusions, state so. 
c. For each analysis, report the exact value of n in each experimental group. 
Randomisation 4 a. State whether randomisation was used to allocate experimental units to control  and treatment groups. If done, provide the method used to generate the  
randomisation sequence.  
b. Describe the strategy used to minimise potential confounders such as the order  of treatments and measurements, or animal/cage location. If confounders were  
not controlled, state this explicitly. 
Blinding 5 Describe who was aware of the group allocation at the different stages of the  experiment (during the allocation, the conduct of the experiment, the outcome  
assessment, and the data analysis). 
Outcome  
measures 
Statistical  methods 
Experimental  animals 
Experimental  procedures  
6 a. Clearly define all outcome measures assessed (e.g. cell death, molecular markers,  or behavioural changes).  
b. For hypothesis-testing studies, specify the primary outcome measure, i.e. the  outcome measure that was used to determine the sample size. 
7 a. Provide details of the statistical methods used for each analysis, including  software used. 
b. Describe any methods used to assess whether the data met the assumptions of  the statistical approach, and what was done if the assumptions were not met. 
8 a. Provide species-appropriate details of the animals used, including species, strain  and substrain, sex, age or developmental stage, and, if relevant, weight. 
b. Provide further relevant information on the provenance of animals, health/immune  status, genetic modification status, genotype, and any previous procedures. 
9 For each experimental group, including controls, describe the procedures in enough  detail to allow others to replicate them, including:  
a. What was done, how it was done and what was used. 
b. When and how often. 
c. Where (including detail of any acclimatisation periods). 
d. Why (provide rationale for procedures). 
Results 10 For each experiment conducted, including independent replications, report: 
a. Summary/descriptive statistics for each experimental group, with a measure of  variability where applicable (e.g. mean and SD, or median and range). 
b. If applicable, the effect size with a confidence interval. 
The Recommended Set 
These items complement the Essential 10 and add important context to the study. Reporting the items in both sets  represents best practice. 
Section/line  
Item Recommendation 
Abstract 11 Provide an accurate summary of the research objectives, animal species, strain  and sex, key methods, principal findings, and study conclusions. 
Background 12 a. Include sufficient scientific background to understand the rationale and  context for the study, and explain the experimental approach. 
b. Explain how the animal species and model used address the scientific  
objectives and, where appropriate, the relevance to human biology. 
Objectives 13 Clearly describe the research question, research objectives and, where  appropriate, specific hypotheses being tested. 
number, or reason  for not reporting 
Ethical  
statement 
Housing and  husbandry 
Animal care and  monitoring 
Interpretation/ scientific  
implications 
Generalisability/ translation 
Protocol  
registration 
14 Provide the name of the ethical review committee or equivalent that has approved  the use of animals in this study, and any relevant licence or protocol numbers (if  applicable). If ethical approval was not sought or granted, provide a justification. 
15 Provide details of housing and husbandry conditions, including any environmental  enrichment. 
16 a. Describe any interventions or steps taken in the experimental protocols to  reduce pain, suffering and distress. 
b. Report any expected or unexpected adverse events. 
c. Describe the humane endpoints established for the study, the signs that were  monitored and the frequency of monitoring. If the study did not have humane  endpoints, state this. 
17 a. Interpret the results, taking into account the study objectives and hypotheses,  current theory and other relevant studies in the literature. 
b. Comment on the study limitations including potential sources of bias,  limitations of the animal model, and imprecision associated with the results. 
18 Comment on whether, and how, the findings of this study are likely to generalise  to other species or experimental conditions, including any relevance to human  biology (where appropriate). 
19 Provide a statement indicating whether a protocol (including the research  question, key design features, and analysis plan) was prepared before the study,  and if and where this protocol was registered. 
Data access 20 Provide a statement describing if and where study data are available. 
Declaration of  interests 
  

21 a. Declare any potential conflicts of interest, including financial and non-financial.  If none exist, this should be stated. 
b. List all funding sources (including grant identifier) and the role of the funder(s)  
in the design, analysis and reporting of the study. 
www.ARRIVEguidelines.org