CHEERS 2022 Checklist  


	Item 
	Guidance for Reporting 
	Reported in  section 
	TITLE
	

	Title 
	1
	Identify the study as an economic evaluation and specify the  
interventions being compared. 
	

	ABSTRACT
	

	Abstract 
	2
	Provide a structured summary that highlights context, key methods,  results and alternative analyses.
	 
	INTRODUCTION
	

	Background and  
objectives 
	3
	Give the context for the study, the study question and its practical  relevance for decision making in policy or practice. 
	

	METHODS
	

	Health economic  
analysis plan 
	4
	Indicate whether a health economic analysis plan was developed and  where available. 
	

	Study population 
	5
	Describe characteristics of the study population (such as age  range, demographics, socioeconomic, or clinical characteristics). 
	

	Setting and location 
	6 
	Provide relevant contextual information that may influence findings. 
	

	Comparators 
	7 
	Describe the interventions or strategies being compared and why chosen.
	

	Perspective 
	8 
	State the perspective(s) adopted by the study and why chosen. 
	

	Time horizon 
	9 
	State the time horizon for the study and why appropriate. 
	

	Discount rate 
	10 
	Report the discount rate(s) and reason chosen. 
	

	Selection of outcomes 
	11 
	Describe what outcomes were used as the measure(s) of benefit(s)  and harm(s). 
	 
	Measurement of  
outcomes 
	12 
	Describe how outcomes used to capture benefit(s) and harm(s)  were measured. 
	 
	Valuation of outcomes 
	13 
	Describe the population and methods used to measure and value outcomes. 
	

	Measurement and  
valuation of resources  and costs 
	14 
	Describe how costs were valued. 
	

	Currency, price date,  and conversion 
	15
	Report the dates of the estimated resource quantities and unit costs, plus the  currency and year of conversion. 
	

	Rationale and  
description of model 
	16 
	If modelling is used, describe in detail and why used. Report if the model  is publicly available and where it can be accessed.
	 
	Analytics and  
assumptions 
	17 
	Describe any methods for analysing or statistically transforming data, any  extrapolation methods, and approaches for validating any model used. 
	

	Characterizing  
heterogeneity 
	18 
	Describe any methods used for estimating how the results of the study  vary for sub-groups. 
	

	Characterizing  
distributional effects 
	19 
	Describe how impacts are distributed across different individuals  or adjustments made to reflect priority populations.
	 
	Characterizing  
uncertainty 
	20 
	Describe methods to characterize any sources of uncertainty in the analysis. 
	

	Approach to  
engagement with  
patients and others  
affected by the study
	21
	Describe any approaches to engage patients or service recipients, the  general public, communities, or stakeholders (e.g., clinicians or payers) in  the design of the study. 
	 
	RESULTS
	

	Study parameters 
	22 
	Report all analytic inputs (e.g., values, ranges, references) including  uncertainty or distributional assumptions. 
	

	Summary of main  
results 
	23 
	Report the mean values for the main categories of costs and outcomes of  interest and summarise them in the most appropriate overall measure. 
	

	Effect of uncertainty 
	24
	Describe how uncertainty about analytic judgments, inputs, or projections  affect findings. Report the effect of choice of discount rate and time horizon,  if applicable.
	 
	Effect of engagement  with patients and others  affected by the study 
	25 
	Report on any difference patient/service recipient, general public, community,  or stakeholder involvement made to the approach or findings of the study 
	 
	DISCUSSION
	

	Study findings,  
limitations,  
generalizability, and  
current knowledge 
	26 
	Report key findings, limitations, ethical or equity considerations not captured,  and how these could impact patients, policy, or practice. 
	 
	OTHER RELEVANT INFORMATION
	Source of funding 
	27 
	Describe how the study was funded and any role of the funder in  the identification, design, conduct, and reporting of the analysis 
	

	Conflicts of interest 
	28 
	Report authors conflicts of interest according to journal or  
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors requirements. 
	

	



Husereau D, Drummond M, Augustovski F, de Bekker-Grob E, Briggs AH, Carswell C, Caulley L, Chaiyakunapruk N, Greenberg D,  Loder E, Mauskopf J, Mullins CD, Petrou S, Pwu RF, Staniszewska S; CHEERS 2022 ISPOR Good Research Practices Task Force.  Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards 2022 (CHEERS 2022) Statement: Updated Reporting Guidance for Health  Economic Evaluations. BMJ. 2022;376:e067975.