Revised Standards for Quality Improvement Reporting Excellence (SQUIRE 2.0) September 15, 2015
Text Section and Item  Name 
	Section or Item Description
	Notes to authors
	• The SQUIRE guidelines provide a framework for reporting new  knowledge about how to improve healthcare 
• The SQUIRE guidelines are intended for reports that describe  system level work to improve the quality, safety, and value of  healthcare, and used methods to establish that observed outcomes  were due to the intervention(s). 
• A range of approaches exists for improving healthcare. SQUIRE  may be adapted for reporting any of these. 
• Authors should consider every SQUIRE item, but it may be  inappropriate or unnecessary to include every SQUIRE element in  a particular manuscript.  
• The SQUIRE Glossary contains definitions of many of the key  words in SQUIRE. 
• The Explanation and Elaboration document provides specific  examples of well-written SQUIRE items, and an in-depth  explanation of each item. 
• Please cite SQUIRE when it is used to write a manuscript.
	Title and Abstract
	

	1. Title
	Indicate that the manuscript concerns an initiative to improve healthcare  (broadly defined to include the quality, safety, effectiveness, patient centeredness, timeliness, cost, efficiency, and equity of healthcare)
	2. Abstract
	a. Provide adequate information to aid in searching and indexing b. Summarize all key information from various sections of the text using  the abstract format of the intended publication or a structured  summary such as: background, local problem, methods, interventions,  results, conclusions
	Introduction 
	Why did you start?
	3. Problem  
Description 
	Nature and significance of the local problem
	4. Available  
knowledge 
	Summary of what is currently known about the problem, including  relevant previous studies 
	



5. Rationale
	Informal or formal frameworks, models, concepts, and/or theories used to  explain the problem, any reasons or assumptions that were used to  develop the intervention(s), and reasons why the intervention(s) was  expected to work
	6. Specific aims 
	Purpose of the project and of this report 
	Methods 
	What did you do?
	7. Context 
	Contextual elements considered important at the outset of introducing the  intervention(s)
	8. Intervention(s)
	a. Description of the intervention(s) in sufficient detail that others could  reproduce it  
b. Specifics of the team involved in the work
	9. Study of the  
Intervention(s) 
	a. Approach chosen for assessing the impact of the intervention(s) b. Approach used to establish whether the observed outcomes were due  to the intervention(s)
	10. Measures
	a. Measures chosen for studying processes and outcomes of the  intervention(s), including rationale for choosing them, their  operational definitions, and their validity and reliability 
b. Description of the approach to the ongoing assessment of contextual  elements that contributed to the success, failure, efficiency, and cost  c. Methods employed for assessing completeness and accuracy of data
	11. Analysis
	a. Qualitative and quantitative methods used to draw inferences from the  data  
b. Methods for understanding variation within the data, including the  effects of time as a variable 
	12. Ethical  
Considerations
	Ethical aspects of implementing and studying the intervention(s) and how  they were addressed, including, but not limited to, formal ethics review  and potential conflict(s) of interest
	Results 
	What did you find?
	13. Results
	a. Initial steps of the intervention(s) and their evolution over time (e.g.,  time-line diagram, flow chart, or table), including modifications made  to the intervention during the project 
b. Details of the process measures and outcome 
c. Contextual elements that interacted with the intervention(s) d. Observed associations between outcomes, interventions, and relevant  contextual elements 
e. Unintended consequences such as unexpected benefits, problems,  failures, or costs associated with the intervention(s). 
f. Details about missing data 
	Discussion 
	What does it mean?
	14. Summary 
	a. Key findings, including relevance to the rationale and specific aims  b. Particular strengths of the project
	



15. Interpretation
	a. Nature of the association between the intervention(s) and the  outcomes 
b. Comparison of results with findings from other publications c. Impact of the project on people and systems 
d. Reasons for any differences between observed and anticipated  outcomes, including the influence of context 
e. Costs and strategic trade-offs, including opportunity costs
	16. Limitations
	a. Limits to the generalizability of the work 
b. Factors that might have limited internal validity such as confounding,  bias, or imprecision in the design, methods, measurement, or analysis c. Efforts made to minimize and adjust for limitations
	17. Conclusions 
	a. Usefulness of the work 
b. Sustainability 
c. Potential for spread to other contexts 
d. Implications for practice and for further study in the field e. Suggested next steps 
	Other information
	

	18. Funding 
	Sources of funding that supported this work. Role, if any, of the funding  organization in the design, implementation, interpretation, and reporting
	



Table 2. Glossary of key terms used in SQUIRE 2.0. This Glossary provides the intended  meaning of selected words and phrases as they are used in the SQUIRE 2.0 Guidelines. They  may, and often do, have different meanings in other disciplines, situations, and settings. 
Assumptions  
Reasons for choosing the activities and tools used to bring about changes in healthcare services at  the system level. 
Context 
Physical and sociocultural makeup of the local environment (for example, external environmental  factors, organizational dynamics, collaboration, resources, leadership, and the like), and the  interpretation of these factors (“sense-making”) by the healthcare delivery professionals, patients, and caregivers that can affect the effectiveness and generalizability of intervention(s).  
Ethical aspects 
The value of system-level initiatives relative to their potential for harm, burden, and cost to the  stakeholders. Potential harms particularly associated with efforts to improve the quality, safety, and  value of healthcare services include opportunity costs, invasion of privacy, and staff distress  resulting from disclosure of poor performance. 
Generalizability 
The likelihood that the intervention(s) in a particular report would produce similar results in other  settings, situations, or environments (also referred to as external validity).  
Healthcare improvement 
Any systematic effort intended to raise the quality, safety, and value of healthcare services, usually  done at the system level. We encourage the use of this phrase rather than “quality improvement,”  which often refers to more narrowly defined approaches.  
Inferences 
The meaning of findings or data, as interpreted by the stakeholders in healthcare services – improvers, healthcare delivery professionals, and/or patients and families 
Initiative 
A broad term that can refer to organization-wide programs, narrowly focused projects, or the details  of specific interventions (for example, planning, execution, and assessment) 
Internal validity 
Demonstrable, credible evidence for efficacy (meaningful impact or change) resulting from  introduction of a specific intervention into a particular healthcare system. 
Intervention(s) 
The specific activities and tools introduced into a healthcare system with the aim of changing its  performance for the better. Complete description of an intervention includes its inputs, internal  activities, and outputs (in the form of a logic model, for example), and the mechanism(s) by which  these components are expected to produce changes in a system’s performance. 
Opportunity costs
Loss of the ability to perform other tasks or meet other responsibilities resulting from the diversion  of resources needed to introduce, test, or sustain a particular improvement initiative 
Problem 
Meaningful disruption, failure, inadequacy, distress, confusion or other dysfunction in a healthcare service delivery system that adversely affects patients, staff, or the system as a whole, or that  prevents care from reaching its full potential 
Process 
The routines and other activities through which healthcare services are delivered  
Rationale 
Explanation of why particular intervention(s) were chosen and why it was expected to work, be  sustainable, and be replicable elsewhere. 
Systems 
The interrelated structures, people, processes, and activities that together create healthcare services  for and with individual patients and populations. For example, systems exist from the personal self care system of a patient, to the individual provider-patient dyad system, to the microsystem, to the  macrosystem, and all the way to the market/social/insurance system. These levels are nested within  each other. 
Theory or theories 
Any “reason-giving” account that asserts causal relationships between variables (causal theory) or  that makes sense of an otherwise obscure process or situation (explanatory theory). Theories come  in many forms, and serve different purposes in the phases of improvement work. It is important to  be explicit and well-founded about any informal and formal theory (or theories) that are used.