```checklist
CHEERS 2022 Checklist  

	Item 
	Guidance for Reporting 
	Reported in  section 
	TITLE
	
	Title 
	1
	Identify the study as an economic evaluation and specify the  
interventions being compared. 
	Not applicable - The study is not an economic evaluation.
	
	ABSTRACT
	
	Abstract 
	2
	Provide a structured summary that highlights context, key methods,  results and alternative analyses.
	Abstract
	
	INTRODUCTION
	
	Background and  
objectives 
	3
	Give the context for the study, the study question and its practical  relevance for decision making in policy or practice. 
	Introduction
	
	METHODS
	
	Health economic  
analysis plan 
	4
	Indicate whether a health economic analysis plan was developed and  where available. 
	Not applicable - The study is not an economic evaluation.
	
	Study population 
	5
	Describe characteristics of the study population (such as age  range, demographics, socioeconomic, or clinical characteristics). 
	Methods - Population and setting
	
	Setting and location 
	6 
	Provide relevant contextual information that may influence findings. 
	Introduction & Methods
	
	Comparators 
	7 
	Describe the interventions or strategies being compared and why chosen.
	Not applicable - The study does not compare interventions or strategies.
	
	Perspective 
	8 
	State the perspective(s) adopted by the study and why chosen. 
	Not applicable - The study does not adopt a specific perspective for economic evaluation.
	
	Time horizon 
	9 
	State the time horizon for the study and why appropriate. 
	Not applicable - The study is not an economic evaluation.
	
	Discount rate 
	10 
	Report the discount rate(s) and reason chosen. 
	Not applicable - The study is not an economic evaluation.
	
	Selection of outcomes 
	11 
	Describe what outcomes were used as the measure(s) of benefit(s)  and harm(s). 
	Not applicable - The study is not an economic evaluation.
	 
	Measurement of  
outcomes 
	12 
	Describe how outcomes used to capture benefit(s) and harm(s)  were measured. 
	Not applicable - The study is not an economic evaluation.
	 
	Valuation of outcomes 
	13 
	Describe the population and methods used to measure and value outcomes. 
	Not applicable - The study is not an economic evaluation.
	
	Measurement and  
valuation of resources  and costs 
	14 
	Describe how costs were valued. 
	Not applicable - The study is not an economic evaluation.
	
	Currency, price date,  and conversion 
	15
	Report the dates of the estimated resource quantities and unit costs, plus the  currency and year of conversion. 
	Not applicable - The study is not an economic evaluation.
	
	Rationale and  
description of model 
	16 
	If modelling is used, describe in detail and why used. Report if the model  is publicly available and where it can be accessed.
	Not applicable - The study does not use modelling.
	 
	Analytics and  
assumptions 
	17 
	Describe any methods for analysing or statistically transforming data, any  extrapolation methods, and approaches for validating any model used. 
	Methods - Quantitative study & Qualitative study
	
	Characterizing  
heterogeneity 
	18 
	Describe any methods used for estimating how the results of the study  vary for sub-groups. 
	Results - Qualitative results
	
	Characterizing  
distributional effects 
	19 
	Describe how impacts are distributed across different individuals  or adjustments made to reflect priority populations.
	Not applicable - The study does not describe distributional effects.
	 
	Characterizing  
uncertainty 
	20 
	Describe methods to characterize any sources of uncertainty in the analysis. 
	Discussion
	
	Approach to  
engagement with  
patients and others  
affected by the study
	21
	Describe any approaches to engage patients or service recipients, the  general public, communities, or stakeholders (e.g., clinicians or payers) in  the design of the study. 
	Methods - Qualitative study
	
	RESULTS
	
	Study parameters 
	22 
	Report all analytic inputs (e.g., values, ranges, references) including  uncertainty or distributional assumptions. 
	Results - Quantitative results & Qualitative results
	
	Summary of main  
results 
	23 
	Report the mean values for the main categories of costs and outcomes of  interest and summarise them in the most appropriate overall measure. 
	Results - Quantitative results & Qualitative results
	
	Effect of uncertainty 
	24
	Describe how uncertainty about analytic judgments, inputs, or projections  affect findings. Report the effect of choice of discount rate and time horizon,  if applicable.
	Discussion
	
	Effect of engagement  with patients and others  affected by the study 
	25 
	Report on any difference patient/service recipient, general public, community,  or stakeholder involvement made to the approach or findings of the study 
	Discussion
	
	DISCUSSION
	
	Study findings,  
limitations,  
generalizability, and  
current knowledge 
	26 
	Report key findings, limitations, ethical or equity considerations not captured,  and how these could impact patients, policy, or practice. 
	Discussion
	
	OTHER RELEVANT INFORMATION
	Source of funding 
	27 
	Describe how the study was funded and any role of the funder in  the identification, design, conduct, and reporting of the analysis 
	Not reported
	
	Conflicts of interest 
	28 
	Report authors conflicts of interest according to journal or  
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors requirements. 
	Not reported
```